Hey friends, this is Scott,
and I've got a word
from a new sponsor and
a really cool sponsor. In
fact that I use myself,
they are Sikh that's S
E Q, and you can
check them out@getsikh.net. That's G
E T S E q.net.
Seek is the easiest way
for your team to capture
and search and visualize structured
log events. You probably do
logging. Maybe you have a
node app or an asp.net
core app. Move beyond text
files, check out structured, logging
it, preserves those individual property
values. As well as the
text that's associated with each
event, they get sent across
the network to seek which
then displays them and makes
them searchable. It's really easy
to get started. You can
probably instrument your application if
you're already using logging in
just minutes, just go to
get seek that's G E
T S E q.net. You
install the seek server. It's
a windows service, and then
it listens and handles all
the logging, whether you're using
no JS and the Bunyan
logging library, or maybe you
use Sera log on.net or
just asp.net core is built
in logging. Sikh is there
for whatever you want to
use, whether it be.net or
node or Python or Java,
it's a really great product.
And I encourage you to
check them out and support
them the way that they
support us here at Hansel
minutes.  This is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking with Eric .
He was a software engineer
on the backwards compat team
at Xbox. How are you
sir? Doing well? How are
you? I'm pretty freaking thrilled
because I have a four
K TV that I spent
an inordinate amount of money
on. And I'm actually getting
a lot of really great
content on it. It's fun.
I thought I was going
to have to buy a
bunch of new games. And
you know, even though there's
a bunch of amazing 4k
stuff on Xbox, one X,
I'm playing all these old
games, I played red dead
redemption yesterday, and it's like
crisper than my memory, which
seems impossible to me. And
you, you and your team
had something to do with
that. Yeah, it's been really
fun. One of these we
kind of talk about is
we were able to present
the games to you the
way you remember them, not
the way they actually looked
at the time, you know,
and you all did that
before with like halo, right?
Like the halo remasters, but
the remasters were people made
new textures and like a
lot of work went into
making it look the way
you remember it, but that
wasn't the same as, as
the stuff that the back
compat team's doing with the,
with the, what do you
call them? They're the up
masters degree, masters, Xbox one
X enhanced versions of titles,
the enhancer Xbox one X
enhanced there that's different than
remastering. Like we see on
other consoles. It's very different.
As you talked about in
a remaster, normally they'll go
in and do higher quality
versions of textures or models
And things like that. And
for us, the game is
running in the emulator, totally
unaware that anything has changed.
It thinks it's running on
a standard Xbox three 60,
Really? So there, this isn't
a find the source code
and frantically recompile it with
new PNGs and a folder
somewhere. If we had access
to source code, that would
be great. Often, you know,
we're sitting there and looking
at a disassembly of code,
trying to figure out what's
going on  and everyone
writes their apps differently, right?
Like one, one, one, or
all of these kind of
three D games running, you
know, like if I use
the example of red dead,
you know, it's over the
shoulder, third person I'm running
around in an open world.
There's only so many ways
to write that though. Right?
There's a, there's a, there's
a MIP map and there's
all kinds of textures that
people have put together. Those
textures aren't gonna get any
higher quality. So you end
up with, you know, kind
of engines, they're different engines
that lots of titles you
use. And so you get
similarities there, but there are
a number of different engines
that were used across the
industry. And, and so there
is a, a huge variety
in how the game actually
works under the covers. I
see. So it's not just
like, Oh, make it work
right for unreal. And then
everything gets amazing. It is
a, it is a, an
art form in the sense
that each game is being
tweaked Exactly in each game,
we'll use different rendering techniques
and things like that, that
interact differently with the running
at the high resolution On,
on all of the forums
out there, people are kind
of like doing their armchair
quarterbacking, trying to figure out
how, how this is done
and how, you know, why
didn't we ever do it
before kind of thing. Is
this a breakthrough or is
this something that emulators have
been doing? You know, like
PS one PS, two emulators
have been doing on wind
on windows machines. And I
think there's even some we
emulators or is this a
new technique? So Some simulators
I'm aware of that will
upper as kind of the
final rendering buffer, but along
the way, on, on three
60, the engines were much
more complicated and you'll get
a shadow pass and a
blur pass and a bloom
pass and all these different
passes running. And we've kind
of got the ability to
tweak which passes run at
high resolution, which don't in
order to balance out the
quality of the final output
and performance and produce something
that is the game that
you remember, but looks way
better than it did then.
And is it really because
we just have so much
more processing power. It's like,
well, why not? It is
actually this, this whole thing
started out. As you know,
we've got something called pics
files and that is you
can take a capture of
a game. It takes one
frames capture and it stores
all of the textures, all
of the geometry, all the
shaders, everything in that frame
gets dumped in this file.
And on the compat team,
these have been super useful
one. You can look at
them and try and figure
out where does our rendering
differ from what happened on
an actual three 60. We
also have a huge suite
of these files that we
use for nightly regression. And
so every, we've got a
whole rack full of consoles
that run and take all
of these pixels files and
play them back. So we
get these big files and
at one point I just
decided, you know, it'd be
neat to try and see
what happens if we run
this at a high resolution,
what does it look like?
And, you know, just fooling
around in my office, got
it up and running. And
it turns out the games
look really, really nice. And
this was back prior to
Xbox one X dev kits
even. And so I got
it and then decided, well,
this looks really nice. What
would it look like in
game and was able to
get it up and running
in game? And it was
beautiful. You know, these games
look amazing, but they were
running it like six to
eight frames, a second instead
of 30 frames a second.
And so it was this
really elegant slideshow. And then
later when the Xbox one
X hardware came out, Hmm.
Well, if you look at
the performance difference between that
and a regular Xbox one
that kind of would get
us right to where we
would need to be, to
be running these at the
frame rate we need. And
that was kind of all
right, let's, let's see if
we can turn it into
a real product. Is the
increasing of the resolution easier
than doubling of the frame
rate. I understand that these
games might look amazing, but
they are, you know, quote
unquote still or adjust at
30 frames a second. Would
it confuse the game if
you suddenly just made them
render faster? Or is it,
you know, is that something
that, that, that their engines
couldn't do, even if they
want it to That very
much, that would be a
problem. You know, kind of
the game is built around
this logic of how quickly
my updating, and there are
some games even that have
a fixed frame time. And
if you play them back
too slowly or too fast
time will dilate or expand
in the game. And all
of a sudden, I'm not
holding up frame rate. Now
the game runs and slow-mo,
and so in general games
have many more assumptions built
in about what kind of
frame rate they're on and
how quickly they can update
the game world, all the
logic run, AI, run collisions,
that type of stuff. Whereas
graphics, we've emulated the Xbox
three 60 chip the GPU
in there. And it's impossible
for us to say, well,
we know when we're rendering,
when we do that, we're
going to increase pixel count
here. And, you know, as
I said before, without the
game, even being aware of
it. So when I play
like red dead redemption as
an example, but it will
use it as a, as
a generic example. The dude
that is running around is
amazing. The signs and the
distance are amazing, but like
the HUD generically, the heads
up display, it looks the
same because I guess no
one ever did a high
Rez HUD. And why would
they even imagine that Exactly,
there was no reason to
put a high road in,
cause it was always shown
that some set number of
pixels. And so they probably
designed the art to be
exactly that number of pixels.
How does it not show
up in like the upper
left corner? Like why does
it show up correctly positioned
relative to the rest of
the screen if it's running
at a high resolution? So
that's part of the technique
here is just making sure
that the viewport, that things
are positioned in the same
place on screen, rather than
being offset at a specific
number of pixels. And so
if in the game originally
was offset a specific number
of pixels. Well, now we
scale that up by whatever
factor we've increased, the resolution
I see. Does it, that
4k is exactly four, 10
ADP screens or is that
an overly simplistic benefit at
all? Yeah, so the way
we actually work is most
of the Xbox three 60
games ran at seven 20
P or something similar to
that. Oh wow. And so
we'll up the pixel count
by nine X, three in
horizontal three in vertical. And
so if the game was
7:20 PM, three 60, we run
at exactly four K resolution.
A lot of games ran
at something slightly below seven,
20 P and then we
run it as similar, the
same ratio below four K.
So this is not just
for X. This is huge.
This is almost almost an
order of magnitude clearer, which
apparently in my memory is
also apparently an order of
magnitude clearer because it does
feel both simultaneously amazing. And
you really, I mean, to
be clear, we're talking about
this in a podcast. So
the irony is not lost
on me, but people who
are listening need to find
a friend, go and see
an Xbox one X on
a proper 4k machine. And
you will be blown away
that you were playing a
three 60 game. It is
almost impossible to get your
head around, but it's also
simultaneously exactly how I remember
it. It is. And it's
amazing how well some of
these games hold up and
quote, unquote, all we're doing
is increasing the resolution, but
the assets in there, the
textures were way beyond what
the hardware at the time
was able to display. And
so now we've got more
powerful hardware. Let's take advantage
of that. And you know,
these games look gorgeous. Yeah.
Using red dead. As an
example, as I walk up
to a building, there might
be a wanted sign on
the, on the wall. And
this is now getting into
kind of the mind of
the Redditor. Well, I guess
they're just using the, the
closeup texture all the time.
Like the texture that you
would see, and we would
do this, we've all done
this when we had an
original Xbox or an Xbox
three 60 to get a
feeling that it was super
high rise as you'd walk
right up to someone's face,
you know, like we all
played half-life right. You walk
right up to the bad
guy's face just to see
how good the textures are,
but then you back up
and then they get blurry.
Are you doing everything at
high res or are you,
are you doing it adaptively?
So it feels like it's
Hi. So the fun thing
here is we're not explicitly
doing anything to show a
higher or lower quality version
of the texture. The way
the graphics chip works is
you've got mid matters. So
you've got the highest resolution
version of the texture of
another version. That's a quarter
of the size of that.
And another it's the right
size all the way down
until you get to a
one by one pixel here,
what this would look like
from really far away. And
then as it's rendering, the
GPU will say, how close
together are these pixels that
I'm drawing. If they're really
close together and the texture
they use a high D
highly detailed version of the
bitmap. Whereas if you back
away, well, now the pixels
maybe farther apart in the
texture. And so it will
drop down to a lower
quality MIP. And so what
we've done is increased the
resolution by nine X. That
means that, whereas before it
would be, you know, dropped
down to the second or
third mint map, now it
can be up at the
very top level and giving
you that highest quality thing
that was already there in
memory, but the hardware before
it was limited and just
didn't have enough pixels to
show you it. Okay. And
I Got you now. And,
and again, without, without anyone
being the wiser, like there
is a virtual three 60
in your Xbox one X
with a high rise card,
but it just doesn't know,
Right. That wanted poster exists
in eight different versions, let's
say. And on the three
60 and always did even
did even did exactly. And
on the three 60, when
you walked up super close,
it was able to use
that highest quality one. And
then when you backed away
a little bit, it dropped
down. Whereas in this X-Box
one X enhanced version, as
you back away, we're able
to keep using that high
quality one for much longer
because the pixel density is
so much higher. What about
games that did dynamic resolutions
and adaptive resolutions? I don't
know of any specific ones,
because it all looks amazing
to me, but there are
games that are like frame
locked and resolution locked. And
then there are games where
they they'll talk like halo
will, you know, switch, just
switch the resolution down a
smidge, and then it'll all
happens frame. Yeah. So on
Xbox one, that's gotten to
be a really popular technique.
I'm not aware of anything
that used it back in
the three 60 generation. There
may be something, but in
terms of frame rate lock,
you'll often see games that
it's less of a lock
and more of a third,
just certain scenes and games
that don't keep up with
the intended frame rate and
it'll slow down. And, you
know, very often in the
emulator, we're able to keep
a, maintain a higher frame
rate through certain scenes than,
than the original hardware could.
Yeah. Okay. So why are
people minimizing this so much?
Like you're saying that this
requires you're, you're saying in
a very simple way, like,
Oh, that's how it's done,
but it's more than just,
just otherwise it would have
been done years ago. Right.
I think it's one of
these things of the Xbox
three 60 generation was one
of the first times when
you had that much texture
detail and that much geometry
that, you know, developers really
had built this much visual
fidelity into their game that
wasn't able to shine through.
Oh, and also just in
terms of end and complexity,
things got much more complex.
We've also done some original
Xbox games via compatibility, and
they upscale both on a
regular Xbox one at four
X pixel account and an
Xbox one X at 16
expert's account. And you can
see there, it was starting
to be the quality of
texture and the quality of
geometry. You know, those games
hold up beautifully as well,
too. Yeah. I was praying
Ninja Gaiden. I think it
was music red and black
on my Xbox one X
and at Amos, I mean
a while back, but it
had a, I think it
was 2000 and early two
thousands, 2005. It was a
12, 2004, 2005, something like
that. Yeah. But it was
a 16, it was one
of the, you know, one
of the few 16 by
nines, as I recall, you
can go and buy it
even now, I think for
like five or 10 bucks.
Yeah. 10 bucks at least
10 years ago. And it
does hold up. If you're
sitting in a normal, if
you look at a real
close, you can tell, but
it moves. It's really interestingly
the resolution and the graphics.
Aren't what makes it feel
even a little bit dated.
It's the camera control. Like
we hadn't decided yet as
an industry on to thumb,
It's fascinating to see games
that are this old. And
I played that game back
when it came out and
be able to play it
now and see what it
looked like then versus what
it looks like now and
how well the developer's vision
is coming through there. It's
just really exciting to be
a part of It's exactly
what they, not just, what
is, it's the way I
remembered. It's the way they
always wanted it. Yeah. And
it also, even though you
work on back on the
back compat team, and we're
talking about the graphics aspect
of things, it's worth pointing
out that, like I just
fired up a couple of
hours ago, what's it called?
Tom Clancy, splinter cell conviction.
And I loaded up a
save game from six years
ago that I'd totally forgotten
about and ended up finishing
the game. And I've gone
from an Xbox one to
an Xbox one S to
an Xbox one X from
an original Xbox three 60.
So that's one, two, three,
four consoles from red dead
redemption. And I've been on
the same on the same
safe game for so long.
I it's just cool. I
don't think people get the
respect they deserve for the,
either the organizational willpower that
X-Box gives us a backwards
compatibility across everything, not just
making it pretty, but making
it functional. It's really cool
to be able to light
up the scenario where, you
know, as you said, you
keep your safe game that
you had from 10 years
ago. And, and similarly, all
these games that you bought
digitally and just one day,
Hey, it shows up and
you're ready to install this
week. We've got a new
game ready for combat. And
this game that you played
back then go ahead and
again, yeah. It's funny that
you mentioned that the idea
that I don't, I remember
when I bought that digitally,
you know, and then suddenly,
you know, Knights of the
old Republic is available again.
It's like, Oh, I guess
I can install that and
play that. And more importantly,
introduce it to my kids
and not have them tease
me because at the end
of that movie is black
and white daddy. Yeah, Exactly.
If it had been playing
fusion friendly with my kids
and a Knights of the
old Republic, I'm working through
it with my son, cause
he's a huge star Wars
fan. And it's really cool
to have this experience that,
you know, I have great
memories of the game and
you talk about movies, not
being black and white video
games. There's interesting thing of,
it's kind of historically been
a, well, you play a
generation and then that's it,
it's over. And it's kind
of hard to play those
games anymore. But the great
video game is going to
be a great video game,
10, 20, 30 years from
now, and being able to
preserve my collection of games
and those memories and relive
with my kids, same thing
I would do with a
movie. It's really nice being
a part of that As
a, as a consumer. I
hope, I mean, I don't
have any inside baseball, but
I hope that this is
kind of the end of
the, of the console generation,
every certain number of years.
And if this, if the
entire X-Box, you know, game
library can be brought forward
forever, then you know, like
you say, 20 years from
now, we'll still be playing
games across multiple generations on
a single piece of hardware,
which will be pretty exciting.
Hey folks, Intel is a
sponsor this week and I
welcome them because they're bringing
some high performance developer tools
for all of us check
out Intel's parallel studio X,
E I've talked about parallelism
before on the show and
the importance of using the
complete instruction set, unlocking the
power of the process or
that your code is running
on. Now, you all might
be writing C or C
plus plus Python or even
Fortran, but as your code
building in such a way
and written in such a
way that it uses the
latest techniques for vectorization multithreading
multi-node parallelization or memory optimization,
Intel parallel studio ECC has
a lot of new stuff
for 2018 across all these
languages, get a free download
at  dot com slash
parallel studio XE, or certainly
go and Google or Google
with being for Intel parallel
studio XE and get started
boosting your app's performance with
smart parallel code with a
lot less effort, check them
out. bitly.com/parallel studio X E.
So MIP maps back to
the tech MIP maps that's
level of detail, right? That's
the image quality. They were
also originally done to reduce
stress on the GPU and
the CPU because of that
back. How do you do,
do you use the same
kind of techniques to keep
the processor working, but not
working so hard that you're
going to lose? So we
don't, don't particularly in terms
of MyMaps like you get
the benefit of less memory
consumption when things are far
away and you're using lower-level
MIPS, but for us, a
lot of the cost is
we're running an emulator. And
so the normal kind of
emulator thing of in order
to maintain accuracy, you end
up doing, you know, instead
of a simple single operation,
maybe have to do a
few things. One thing that
pops to mind is when
they were emulating the original
Xbox on the Xbox three
60, and they had to
do a floating point divide.
And it turned out that
the original Xbox headaches slightly
more accurate divide in certain
cases. And so in the
emulator, what they would do
is do the divide and
then do a Newton Rapson
iteration to refine the result
and be able to match
bit for bit what the
original console produced. And so
just in general, with emulators,
you ended up doing all
these weird things of, well,
in the case of Nan's
or, you know, certain D
normal values, the results is
different. And so we have
to do these expensive tests
to make sure that we
get bid accurate results. They're
similar kind of thing in
the emulator is that our
shaders ended up being way
more complicated than they would
normally be because we have
to handle some of those
weird edge cases or certain
pieces of hardware. There are
certain techniques on three 60
that were extremely fast and
in emulating them, they end
up consuming huge percentage of
our frame time. And, and
so there's kind of, if
we could just run the
same code, yeah. It'd be
trivial to run this thing
at whatever frame rate we
wanted, but to be able
to run it emulated. So
it's running the same way
it did on a physical
three 60, we ended up
kind of having the tray
sometimes various tricks to make
some of these things that
end up being much more
expensive under an emulator, you
know, where can we reduce
those turn? Some of those
things off The Xbox three
60 was a, was a
IBM power PC based thing,
right? Yes. What is the
Xbox one? X Xbox one
X is X 64. Okay.
So you are literally running
a power PC emulator and
emulating the original GPU and
then assume any of the
weirdnesses of all those things.
Yeah. And you know, if
it did something even remotely
wrong, you also have to
be wrong On purpose. Exactly.
And it may be nobody
ever intentionally assumed that that
wrong thing would happen, but
some game accidentally used it
and took a dependency on
it. And so even if
something was a mistake, well,
we've gotta be able to
faithfully emulate it because some
games going to do it
right. Taking a bug as
a dependency. Exactly. Oftentimes we'll
say there's no way anyone
ever did that. And then
without fail, two months later,
or six months later, we
find out, Nope, here's the
title that did that. Right.
And then also we have
to remember that there's an
Xbox one and Xbox one
S and an X, and
you've got to make it
scale up appropriately as it
moves through these, these kind
of three sub generations of
X-Box ones we do. And
in terms of the development
side for a game that
we're not doing an Xbox
one X enhancement for, and
to just ship it as
is, and it will generally
run fine. Now our testing
has to go through and
make sure that running it
faster on the Xbox one
X doesn't cause problems. But
that's something that we really
haven't seen outside of maybe
a couple of isolated cases.
And does this mean that
people like to have to
play the whole decile? Like
someone's literally like, Oh man,
I got to go through
the Witcher again, We have
an army of testers and
they will go through and
kind of games go through
these different phases of, well,
we've ingested the binary and
that we can make an
emulated version of it. And
then we run it for
a while and capture some
data about it. And then
we have what we think
is a shippable bill. And
then we have them play
through the entire game, start
to finish kind of trying
to find every corner and
make sure everything works. And
now they do that both
on a Xbox one and
the Xbox one X. And
then as we get closer,
there's some more checks before
we ship, but there are
a large number of people
whose job is to play
through these games over and
over. Oh my goodness. Now
there's also something I noticed
that I was surprised me
if you, you know, ordinarily
there's the Xbox guide button,
that big kind of bright
button in the middle of
your controller and you push
it and takes you home
on an Xbox three 60,
it would bring up the
Xbox three 60 guide. The
way that you get to
the guide on Xbox one
X, if you want to
get into the Xbox three
60 guide is kind of
a punch through you, push
start and select or view
and menu simultaneously. And you
get into, is it a
real X-Box guide or an
emulated one Running the emulator
still? And at that point,
it's just emulating what would
happen on a three 60
in terms of bringing up
the guide, right? But it
has a special menu that
says Xbox one X settings,
which kind of increases the
inception of it all because
you're finding a setting within
the emulator that refers back
to the, it's almost like
finding a VM specific setting.
And it has a choice
between graphics or performing. And
it was kind of fun
to put that into the
guide there. Cause that's probably
the last button that will
ever be added on an
Xbox three 60. And what
is it now it's referenced
to this contract, you know,
came out 15 years after
the first one or 10
years or whatever it is.
Why would I ever not
want to optimize the game
for graphics? If you wanted
to see what it looked
like? Originally, one thing we've
seen a lot of people
do is record comparisons of
the graphics mode versus the
performance mode. The other reason
that's in there is if
there's a case where we
aren't able to maintain frame
rate, while running it to
the NYNEX enhanced version, you
could run at a higher
frame rate potentially across all
the games we've shipped there.
Basically no instances. I think
there may be one or
two corner cases where we
don't quite hold the frame
rate running in the enhanced
mode. But in terms of,
if you just want to
enjoy the game, we're very
careful to make sure that
if we're shipping an enhanced
version, it keeps its frame
rate and graphics mode is
what you should be playing
in. This is amazing. So
full frame rate that you
expect at nine X, the
pixel count and virtually no
games that you've seen that
have that, that can't hit
that full, that full four,
right? I've never seen a
slowdown on any of that.
Yeah. The army of testers
has found one or two
scenes where you look a
certain direction and it slows
down, but just playing through
the game. I see. You're
unlikely to find that, Okay,
so what about bugs? Right?
This can't just be, you
know, the, the story that
you told I am, we
figured this out and I
guess it looks like it
looks amazing and it has
so much power. Like of
course it looks amazing. There
must be this game or
that game had a weird
way to thinks about stuff
or bugs that got you
unexpected results. When you started
throwing high res textures and
different, different aliases. Anti-aliasing, There's
been all sorts of books
that come through this one.
One of the more interesting
ones was there's something you
can do called the visibility
query, which is basically a
way for the game to
say, I want to know
how many pixels actually get
drawn by this draw. And
so game will draw some
stuff and then it will
draw something under a visibility
query and use that later
on the CPU or on
a future GPU call to
make a decision. And there
was a game where I
think it was an extra
flashlight got turned on, couldn't
figure out what it was
configured. And eventually attracted down
to the visibility query was
now saying there were nine
times the number of pixels
visible that there had been
before, and the CPU was
doing some calculation and saying,
Oh, that's a bunch of
stuff. I, I guess it
was a light beam, a
glow from a light source.
And so it was saying,
well, that looks like a
lot of pixels were visible
from this light source, even
though it was barely visible,
but since we'd scaled up
the visibility query, the CPU
said, that's visible enough. I
need to show this glow.
And so it's really awkward.
Glow showed through and we
had to go through and
say, Nope, when you're doing
a visibility query, cut that
down by the appropriate ratio
In the windows world. I
know that there's all kinds
of backwards, compatibility kind of
catalogs. So if, and I'm
just picking a name, I
don't know this to be
true. I'm just picking it.
Like, let's say QuickBooks acts
weird on windows eight instead
of windows seven. There's a
whole team at Microsoft that
says, Oh, look, they called
get H wind in a
weird way. They're expecting a
certain thing. So then they
don't actually patch QuickBooks and
they don't really patch windows.
They just kind of like
promise to lie. Or they
patch that one function call
as a way of saying,
yeah, when QuickBooks does it,
it's different. We'll give them
something special. And this is
part of windows, larger dedication
to things just working, right?
How are you patching without
patching in the way that
you're describing? So in terms
of, of things patch like
that, I think more on
the CPU side, where for
instance, we've had games that
were originally multiple discs. And
so you play through your
game and at some point
it pops up a dialogue
that says, please insert disk
two now, and we'll have
people go, no, we want
to ship it digitally. And
there's not another disc to
put in. And so the
devs will go through and
figure out where was that
API call and stub that
out from the game. So
instead of popping up this
dialogue, you just keep playing
through. I'm trying to think
of if there are any
GPU cases that are similar
to that, a lot of
it is just in the
scaled world, make sure we're
lying appropriately. So the game
isn't able to realize that
the pixel counts are different
than what it expected. Is
it kind of a, of
a, of a, a bit
of state management? Do you
have to keep them, like
how, how long have you
been lying? Have you been
lying in consistently? Are any
of our lives gonna come
back on us when they
get to the end of
this level? Yup. Usually we
just have to worry about
within one frame, occasionally things
persist beyond that, but sometimes
it's even this we'll keep
a copy of our super
fancy high res version, but
we'll also make a low
risk version because the CPU
is going to access it
or something else is going
to access it and need
that lower quality version for
whatever reason. Oh, wow. That
just blew my mind. So
what you show the user,
which looks amazing may not
necessarily be what you told
the CPU that we showed
the user and you say,
Hey, here's the low res
version. Here's the, you know,
the non retina display. You
go ahead and look at
that. And it's the same,
don't worry. Exactly. And as
long as you're lying consistently
And keep up that illusion
that, Hey game you're, you're
just running out of normal
life box three 60, everything
you expect to be there,
we'll be there. It feels
like the backward compatibility library.
And again, I'm speaking as
a, as a user started
slow, you heard nothing but
complaints about like, well, what
about this? And what about
that? And now it's coming
faster and faster and faster
and faster have you, or
is it because you all
have built up a library
of tricks and tips and
ways like you've polished the
way you do back in
Pat? So now you can
start not just releasing back
compat, but also Xbox one
enhanced. Yeah, I think a
lot of it just comes
with the maturity of the
emulator and the optimization time
that's been put in back
when we launched, you know,
we had some games that
we wanted to ship that
we just couldn't get to
run a frame rate. We
had games that instead of
at 30, they would run
at 10 or 15 frames
a second and we don't
want to ship this poor
experience. So at the time
we said, you know, here's
a title. We don't think
we're ever going to be
able to ship. And then
over the next year two,
as we put Out more
titles, we optimize various things
and make bug fixes in
the emulator. And the technology
has matured and matured. And
then we came back and
said, Hey, this game that
we didn't ever think we'd
be able to ship. If
you play it now it's
holding 30 most of the
time. And we're able to
go back to it, able
to ship it. And so
there have been titles. We
didn't think we'd be able
to ship. And as of
right now been able to,
to ship one, the first
one that ever stuck out
as this might not be
possible in the emulator. And
so that was a really,
really cool feeling. Yeah. I
I'm actually going and buying
a bunch of these games
that like, you know, for
cheap, like you can buy
the original Assassin's creed, which
was gorgeous at the time.
And it's even more gorgeous
now. And it's like 15
bucks, 10 bucks, 20 bucks,
you know, and then it's
this thing of a great
game is still a great
game. Whether it came out
10 years ago or it
came out this week. Absolutely.
I just, like I say,
I just bought and finished
from an old saved game.
Explain yourself simply because I
saw that, like, I've been
finally waiting for this and
it's, it's backward compat. And
I went on Amazon and
I think I got it
for five bucks and got
it immediately. And I'm looking
forward to getting back into
crackdown. I know I have
a saved game and crackdown
going back awhile and I
never made it through, which
are two, which is now
back compat and enhanced as
well. Yeah. Last question I
have is why is it
called the hygiene method? If
there's a whole team, it
got named after me because
I was kind of the
dev that experimented with it
and got the technology up
and running the GPU team
is relatively small. There's about
five of us or so,
but I've definitely had help
as we've been getting these
games enhanced. So despite having
my name on it, it's,
it's been a team effort.
Do you feel weird having,
like, I assume you see
the, the Reddit threads in
the forum threads, like the
hygiene method, it's a method,
you know, like it's capital
H capital M like, you
know, it's a method. The
weirdest thing for me is
seeing my name spelled correctly
and having people pronounce it
correctly because all throughout my
life, it's been a strange
name and people struggle with
that. And so that's been,
yeah, not anymore. You've got
the juice you get, you
get auto completed when people
type your name now, which
is pretty sweet. Well, thanks
so much for chatting with
me today. It's been a
pleasure. Thanks for having me
on, I would really, really,
really encourage folks that have
Xbox and that have an
Xbox one X, or if
you have a friend check
this out, the backwards compat
is such a joy. It
really cannot be overstated. I
know I sound like a
fan boy, but it has
really opened up my whole
library and brought me back
to a bunch of games
that I I'm just happy
that I've been able to,
to play them again. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next week. .